---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2025-10-25
permalink: /posts/2025/10/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - 
  - 
  - 
---


I’ve been unsure what to post here, so I thought I’d start by sharing something from a recent journal entry that reflects how my thoughts about uncertainty have changed over time.

I’ve always said that I love uncertainty, that I enjoy randomness in life. I used to mean it. I found joy in spontaneity, in leaving space for chance to decide things for me, I love chance games, or even worse, intuition. I would tell people on campus who wanted to meet up: “Let’s not plan, if we run into each other, we’ll take a walk.” And surprisingly, it worked. 

But lately, I’ve been thinking that maybe it’s not because I truly embrace all forms of uncertainty, but rather because I’ve only experienced the lighter side of it. Perhaps it’s a privilege to be able to say that I enjoy uncertainty at all.

It’s all fun until uncertainty takes a darker shape, when it shows up in matters of health. Whether it’s your own health or that of someone you love, or even when you're reading medical papers for your research, you suddenly realize how unbearable uncertainty can be. You consult experts, read studies, and talk to doctors, and all of them, no matter how confident, ultimately share one thing you’re trying to escape: uncertainty itself. 

But maybe I'm wrong, maybe all life-and-death situations do feel the same. Maybe uncertainty always hurts in the same way. Yet when I think about the war, it doesn’t feel that way. I remember sitting at home, hearing the distant explosions, and feeling strangely numb — not even caring when it would end. That numbness was nothing like the sharp, restless anxiety of medical uncertainty. My experience of war is still new, so maybe time will tell whether I’m right about this.

Either way, I’ve become more cautious about saying that I “enjoy uncertainty.” What I mean now is that I respect it. It’s something I want to understand.

(Added, not from my jounral!): As I look toward my PhD, I think that’s what I want to keep doing; understanding uncertainty in all its forms: the playful, the philosophical, and the painful.
